From handsome and it's dot
com is Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 34.
Recorded live Wednesday, October 8th, 2008. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Tellerik rad controls and
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers
journal, the world's leading that
net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Jeff Atwood, Jeff Dallas,
and Jared Dickson from stack
overflow.com. This is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I
have the pleasure to sit
down today with Jeff Atwood,
just and Jared Dickson from
the, the currently Epic and
rising stack overflow.com. Thanks guys
for taking the time to
chat with me today. You're
welcome. Our pleasure. So how's
it going, stack overflow. It's
gotten this big and wonderful
as you thought it was.
I think we're still recovering
from the idea that it's
actually working. Like it hasn't
fallen over because we did
get slashed, dotted, all those
Slashdot. Isn't quite the monster
they used to be. Isn't
that funny? I got slashed
out twice last month and
both times didn't notice it.
Not only because I don't
read slash dot, but because
it didn't really change the
traffic on my site very
much. Right? Yeah. It's not
quite the monitor it used
to be, but there was
a lot of traffic on
that first day. In fact,
that first day is still
a peak we haven't gotten
back to. So it's sort
of like really mountain. Well,
because there's just so much
publicity around the first day,
but we're slowly inching up,
but it's just, there was
a lot of traffic. So
if we were going to
fall over, we would have
definitely fallen over on the
first day. And I think
I'm just impressed that we
didn't, frankly. That's awesome. So,
so let's, let's back up
and for those who haven't
gone to stack overflow.com, what's
the, what's the concept? So
the concept of stack overflow,
it's something that me and
Joel, Spolsky sort of a
joint venture that we put
together and it's based on
really a couple of things.
One of the largest reasons
we went after this was
we felt like there's this
site whose name rhymes with
expert sex change that we
think is kind of a
little bit evil in the
way that they approach the
world in that they're letting
people ask and answer these
questions, but they have this
sort of flying the way
that they present the information
and they feel like they're
trying to trick you every
time you go there. And
it just feels very much
like used car salesman, you
Google for stuff, you find
them as the answer and
You can see part of
the answer in the Google
index, then you click and
then they lie and they
say pass, Right. Well, you
can actually scroll down. That's
the trick of that site
is if you scroll all
the way down, then the
information is in fact there.
And there are some, although
we're also finding that that
particular site tends to be
a little bit more, it
focused, there are some programming
questions there and you will
get hits. Like I do
get organic hits on them.
And it's the sort of
thing. Whenever you see those
links in the result, you
sort of grown to yourself,
you're like, Oh great. Right.
You know, there might be
something there, but clicking on
it just as an exercise
in futility, most of the
time it makes you sort
of hate yourself when you
go there. And we kind
of wanted a site like
that for programmers, where when
you go there, you didn't
hate yourself and maybe you
actually even enjoyed going there.
And the other thing driving
it is I feel like
there's a lot of really
talented programmers who don't blog
and they don't really have
an online presence, like say,
Scott, you and I do,
you know, where we talk
about we're, we're noisy, right?
We're afraid, noisy. A lot
of programmers are very quiet
and yet they have, you
know, really great information and
we want to sort of
unlock that and make it
really easy for them to
come in and participate and
ask and answer questions in
an extremely low friction way.
And by that, I mean,
you don't even have to
log in. So it's a
little bit like Wikipedia in
that regard. You're trying to
create the developer's third place.
Maybe, maybe, you know, about
the theory, the third place,
right work. And then either
church or bar, this is
the third place. Well, I
sort of got tired of
telling people to blog too.
It was like, okay, you
should just start a blog.
And you realize eventually that,
although that has worked really
well for you and I,
and a bunch of other
people, it's really not just
something everybody's going to pick
up. It's not really something
that's in everybody's DNA to
actually go out and start
a blog and keep writing
every week or every day.
But there's other ways they
can participate and stack overflow
is, is kinda like that.
I really do view stack
overflow as my coding horror
2.0, it's like coding horror,
where instead of being a
commoner on my post, you
can own it. Right. You
can go in and ask
a question that you own.
It's like your little blog
posts and it can be
maintained, you know, has aspects
of Wikipedia has aspects of,
you know, voting systems like
Digg and Reddit where you
can vote things up and
down. And you know, we're
trying to synthesize all these
things together and it's sort
of the end result of
my experience online of sort
of a place I would
like to participate in. Right
where I'm just a peer.
I'm not like the guy
who owns it, you're on
my blog. It's like something
we collaboratively build together. It's
like a, it's like a
community garden. Yeah. I mean,
I've noticed that there's a,
not a lot of chuff
around the side. I mean,
people are tending to their
questions and I like that
there are a thousand different
ways to find the same
information. And it's all where
you think it would be.
You click on your name,
it goes to your profile.
You go down. It says,
Oh, here's all the questions
that you've ever asked. You
go to see what you've
ever voted on. I mean,
you're tracking everything, right? You
throw nothing away and throw
nothing away because it's all
valuable, Right? This is a
programmer site. I mean, we
built it like, you know,
programmers love data, right? Programmers
love nothing more than going
to like task manager. And
I have this sort of
running joke of what our
programmers do when they encounter
a new program, they go
to the options dialogue and
they see what's available. That's
like the first thing I
do, it's like, Oh, I
want to go to the
options dialog. That's how I
judge a program. Like when
I installed Chrome, I was
just blown away by the
fact that my browser had
like a task manager. I
was so sold. You know,
the minute I saw that
was like, Oh my God,
a task manager, they totally
get it. Right. And Nick
overflow is a cipher program.
So we have lots and
lots of metrics and like
ways you can drill down
into the data because that's
fun for programmers, right? I
mean, we love that crap.
That's what we do. So
it's very much for a
specific audience. One way we
want to avoid sort of
the Yahoo answers problem. And
we did a lot of
research on related Q and
a sites before we started
this. And one pitfall we
sound found with sites like
this is the more broad
you go in the audience,
the worse it gets. So
we're trying to stay very
laser focused to software developers.
We're trying not trying to
meet everyone's needs in the
world. Like all the, it
people, you know, internal wikis,
things like that. We're just
trying to meet the average
programmers needs with the site
and stay focused on that
audience. Don't you think it's
getting a little sloppy on
the homepage though, because you've
got Ruby guys next to
Pearl guys next to mainframe
programmers. And I'm not, I
don't, I don't want to
answer those questions. I don't
want to read those questions.
I want to, I want
a homepage. That's customized. We
are working on customization and
I think that's becoming an
increasing issue now at the
sites, you know, getting more
and more people attracted to
it. But honestly, part of
it, I think it's a
little bit of an attraction.
One of the things I
liked about my blog coding
horror is that it tends
to attract people, that program
and a variety of different
things. It's not necessarily like
a Microsoft centric side of
like I'm in Microsoft developer,
here's my Microsoft tools, but
it attracted people from really
all walks of life in
programming. And I loved that
aspect of it. And there's
a little bit of that
we're really shooting for in
stack overflow. We're, we're, we're
trying to avoid sort of
being the ghetto of like,
Oh, this is the SQL
server ghetto, or this is
the, you know, C sharp
ghetto where we just do
C sharp. And if you
post a VB question, we're
going to make fun of
you or it's not, you
know, the correct language. So
I think part of it
is really rubbing shoulders with
programmers from other walks of
life, you know, not totally
because obviously I can't answer
Pearl questions. I don't really
know how about, here's a
thought, You know, I could
see you getting, getting the
ghetto ization of stack overflow.
If you simply let me
as a user come on
and say, I only want
to see asp.net stuff. Right.
And then, but if you
had an option, if you
had a, a, a, a
slider bar that let me
select how much leakage I
wanted leakage is probably not
the best user interface word,
but you know what I'm
saying? I want, I want
only asp.net, but I'll have
10% leakage. So let other
stuff randomly leak into my
own page. Right. That would
be cool. Right? No, definitely
customization is, is sort of
the great undiscovered country for
us. And we're getting deeply
into it now because we
realized that. And particularly with
regards to answering questions, like
it's fun for me to
browse these questions and read
them sometimes. And it's surprising
how people would just come
up with really interesting topics
across a variety of different
languages that are intriguing. Like,
it's kind of just fun
to read what people are
posting on some level, but
in terms of actually answering
stuff, like I said, I
don't know Pearl. So if
you have a Pearl question,
I mean, I may read
it. It might be fun,
but I'm not going to
be able to answer it.
So in terms of showing
unanswered questions, that's the first
area we're going to get
into really hardcore customization, where
we're going to try to
show you only things that
you have a track record
of participating in, right? Like
if you've posted 50 answers
to asp.net questions, then, well,
that's what we're going to
show you. We're going to
show you things, dealing with
asp.net in terms of unanswered.
And then that's gonna start
bleeding over into other areas
of the site from the
unanswered page. In fact, that's
something that Jeff is working
on at the moment. It's
gonna be really interesting to
see what the longevity is,
whether, I mean, cause you
know, with, with, with games
like, like this and games
like Guild Wars, there's the
initial excitement, the frantic leveling
up and then the plateauing
and then the depression, how
to push this past that,
you know, I mean I'm
a level seven, I've got
all the gold right badges,
right. Then, then how do
you keep them interested in
the way you keep them
interested is it has to
leak into their life. And
there I am with leakage
again, it has to leak
into the live was there,
they're on Google and they
start searching for it. And
when you start showing up
as some large percentage of
answers, then it gets interesting
and then stack overflow really
gets, it, gets it sneaks
into their lives from other
directions. Well, one thing that
I've found in participating in
sort of online forums was
that those were very much
a game. Anyway. I mean
there was no levels, there
was no score, but I
realized that at some level
almost everything you do online
is kind of like a
game. I mean, maybe this
is just a larger metaphor
for life, but there's some
aspect of it where you're
playing this game. Right. And
we're just making that a
little more explicit and to
be clear, everything that's in
stack overflow, that's, you know,
game like in terms of
reputation, scores, and badges and
things like that are really
there to drive good behavior,
right? They're not in there
in an arbitrary way where
we say, okay, we're just
gonna give you points and
you're gonna earn points. You
get points. Here's an example.
So how do you actually
get reputation? It's very much
like Google's page rank system
in that you don't get
reputation yourself. Other people give
it to you. That's the
only way to get reputation
our system with, with very,
very minor exceptions. So for
you to get reputation, other
people have to like your
stuff. It has to be
validated by other people, right?
Whereas in a traditional, you
know, multiplayer game, like world
of Warcraft, you can get
like a, you can level
up by just killing, you
know, random things on the
site, right? You could just
sit there and kill rats
for days and days and
days. And there's a point
of diminishing return, but eventually
you will level up on
our site. You know, you
can't really kill like whore,
frats or whatever other people
have to like what you're
doing and click up on
it to actually give you
reputation. So it's sort of
very much a positive feedback
loop driven by, you know,
the community, the other people
liking what you're posting and
finding it helpful and interesting
and useful. So we hope
it is gambling, but I
do want to be clear
that, you know, the reputation
comes from other people. And
ultimately we're trying to do
is, is, you know, go
stand shoulder to shoulder with
your peers and post cool
and interesting things that they
react positively to. Cool. Let's
take the conversation into a
more technical direction and see
if we can hear from
Jeff and Jared. So how
long did it take you
to build this and what
did you build it in?
Maybe one of the guys
could share the, the laundry
list of technology. In fact,
I think Jared should take
that because Jared did so
much really great work initially
getting the project up and
running. So Jared, do you
want to talk about just
starting out and how we
did it? Sure. Actually, whenever
you came to me, you
said, Hey, why don't we
try this new MVC Espina
NVC framework? You know, it
was like the first preview
was out and you know,
I'd been working on doing
a lot with Ruby on
rails just personally. And I
really wanted to, you know,
use an MVC framework. So
we started out going with
that direction. And after using
web forms for six, seven
years, I've really wanted to
change. And it's like a
breath of fresh air working
with the ASP net MVC
framework. And so we sort
of just on the front
end with that and the,
the back end we use
SQL server 2005. And that
was, that was nice to
use. I've been using Oracle
for so long. So I
guess it took us about
three, four months to code
most of the sites. So,
and, you know, working with
the different preview releases, that's
been a real good challenge.
And how did you conceive
me when you can see
this? Was this all? I
mean, how did the design
process go? Was it Jeff?
Did you visualize this in
your, in your head and
then draw it on a
napkin? And then you've got
a designer is one of
his, one of you three
a designer. No. So yeah,
design was one of the
big challenges. So Joel and
I sort of had ideas,
you know, Joel, I think
had his.net discussion group, his
Joel and software discussion boards,
which occasionally I'll get organic
kids to those as well
when I'm searching for something
on Google. So I was
aware of those. I wasn't
really participating in them, but
they're extremely bare bones like
by design and Joel has
a whole post about that.
But Joel and I had
some really clear thoughts about
like how you build a
community and sort of the
ways you combine these features
together to make it interesting
and useful. So I think
that was a lot of
the initial design was Joel
and I just were going
back and forth. And then
Jared and I did a
ton of research. We spent
a week just going to
like every Q and a
site on the internet. Like
almost literally, Jared, you wanna
talk About that phase? Yeah.
Whenever we, we would send
each other links, you know,
some of the hilarious questions,
you know, Jeff had mentioned
earlier of, you know, if
you had to keep a
laser like focus on, you
know, software developers, because like
for instance, Yahoo answers, like
people were asking crazy questions,
like how is the Babby
formed? You know, It's really
amazing. Yeah. Who answered that?
It's just disturbing how weird
it gets so rapidly. And
because the topics are so
broad, you can ask literally
anything. And when you can
ask anything, it's just sort
of craziness and sues. And
the example I like to
use is YouTube, where if
you have a really popular
YouTube video, the comments are
gonna be just crap, right.
But here's the thing. If
you find a YouTube video
that's really narrow, you'll actually
find some really useful comments
there. It's surprising there's this,
there's like two P two
classes of usage around YouTube.
One is sort of the
generic, you know, look at
a woman, scantily clad woman
dancing video. And there's like
these super narrow videos. So
it only maybe 10,000 people
in the, in the world
to care about. And those
have really good comments. And
our thought was, Hey, let's
have a world of increased,
incredibly narrow technical problems that
only a hundred thousand, 2000
people in the world would
care about. And that's sort
of how you get the
signal to noise ratio up
is because the signal is
so narrow. That was sort
of the thing we found
there. And it's amazing how
many of these sites there
are, there's like answer bag
with the answers, Jared and
I were finding all these
sites. We had no idea.
I've never heard of these
sites. That's amazing. I've never
heard of these sites of
these just really boutique type
things. No, I think they
positioned themselves as, you know,
the world's interface for asking
questions and you know, a
lot of them have a
pretty large community and we
agree. We were surprised we
had never heard of many
of these sites, but we
were trying to just get
ideas about, you know, how
do you run a Q
and a site and how
are people currently doing it?
And some of the things
that running into. So, you
know, that that was a
good research phase. And that
lasted, I would say a
week to two weeks. And
you know, the rest of
it was just taking our
collective experience. Certainly we've been
to like the MSC and
forums and other sort of
programming Hangouts so that there
are sure one of the
things that's really just strikes
me. And maybe it's just
me about the site was
that somebody made a conscious
decision to use all text
for everything so that I
hover over virtually any element
on the screen. And I
get a little tool tip,
right. That just seems really
obvious, but also really clever
because it gives you extra
information. Anytime you pause and
go, Oh, that's what that
is. Because the tool tips
pops up. Some dogma that
came from on high that
really came out of the
feedback. So one thing I
did early on was I
emailed everybody. I can think
of that. I sort of
respected in terms of they
had built sites like this,
right. Or they had done
things on the internet that
were really impressive, that they
had sort of created a
site doing something that I
liked. And I said, you
know, please take a look
at this. And I said,
email me directly. And I
took those feedback extremely seriously
because these are people that
would have a track record
of building things on the
internet, which I really drawn.
I mean, I have my
blog and stuff, but I
haven't really built a site
and put it out there.
And one of the key
pieces of feedback I got
back was, you know, use
tons of tool tip text.
And I really took that
to heart. And I tried
to do it in tons
of places throughout the site.
So really a lot of
what we do is really
driven by, by feedback, not
everything, but certainly we, we
try to sort of fold
in all the good ideas
that we're getting from people.
And also that we see
on other sites on the
internet. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman with a word from
our sponsor. Do you know
how to build web 2.0
Ajax applications with web 1.0
components? You really can't. If
you want to do the
next generation web applications you'll
need next generation components. Just
like the ones that our
friends at Telerik have got
their rad controls for ESPN
at Ajax. It's a huge
pack of web controls built
on top of asp.net. Ajax.
That'll add previously impossible performance
interactivity to your next project.
The new controls mirror, the
Ajax API from asp.net. So
development is really straightforward. The
client scripts are shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
a really efficient operation, the
new rad editor from ESPN
Ajax, Telerik loads up to
four times faster than before.
And the new rad grid
handles thousands of records and
just milliseconds, but as always,
it's best to try for
yourself. So you can visit
dot com slash ASP,
net Ajax, and download a
trial. Thanks a lot. Now
I'm looking at the homepage
here and I'm seeing recent
questions, recent tags, recent badges.
And then within each question
you've got, how long ago
it happened, who did it
then statistics on that particular
individual? What is the shape
of the data look like
on the homepage? How many
queries are are happening here?
Are there dozen little queries
or one Epic query with
a lot of, you know,
what's the shape of this
data? We're doing a lot
of queries we're using linked
to SQL as our underlying
sort of Dow, I guess
you'd say I'm not, I,
I tend to lean heavily
towards the database as model
camp. I know this is
heresy to a lot of
people, but Oh yeah. As,
as, as well as not
learning C Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Not learning C but LinkedIn
SQL is nice in that
regard because it's very lightweight.
It's essentially almost like having
raw SQL in your application.
And a lot of places
we do still have raw
sequel in our app. Cause
I'm a little bit old
school about that, but I
love link. I want to
be clear link. You're saying
that you break the fourth
wall and you just go
right down and you pull
out ado.net in some spots.
Well, we use the link
context. So DB dot execute
command, which is the link,
you know, the accepted link
way. Yeah. But underneath it's
still going to go and
it's going right to the
database. Yeah, Yeah. In some
places we are, but in
general, we're going through links.
So there's very little difference.
So the homepage, for example,
we're doing some group inquiries,
but we also found that
the way MVC works, it
can be a little bit
of a challenge to figure
out sort of where the
data access is occurring because
you'll build a model, you
know, model view controller, and
your model will have some
property that makes it go
get more data. And it
can be kind of subtle
sometimes about when you have
a view accessing one of
these properties on the model
and then that triggers a
whole bunch of queries. So
then effectively your view is
querying the database. If you
really think about what's happening,
which you know, depending on
how, again, how dogmatic you
want to be about MVC,
you're not really supposed to
do that. The views are
supposed to be really dumb
and just dump data on
the page in a specific
format. Yeah. But it can
be subtle to figure out,
okay, if I access this
property, bam, 50 queries occur.
Right. And Jeff, did you
want to talk about some
of the optimization we did
around? Cause I think caching
was our biggest challenge, honestly,
with NBC, because I think
what we ran into was
you have controllers. We kind
of wanted sub controllers because
we wanted a way to
sort of break up the
data so that we could
actually cash sort of sub
elements of the page, but
not the whole page. So
Jeff, did you want to
talk about that at all?
Sure. Yeah. I guess I'm
a little, a little embarrassed
about our implementation of it
as well. We are using
it. Don't feel embarrassed because
this is not, you're not,
it's not like you're on
stage trying to be a
purist and justify your design
because ultimately you guys need
to remember that success is
ultimately the best metric. Very
good. Right. And you guys
are doing a good job,
right. And you balanced pragmatism
with purity. So it may
not be academically. Correct. But
let's talk about it in
a Frank way that without
feeling that you're being judged
and then after you open
your soul to me tonight,
then I'll judge it until
then We're using some of
the MVC contribs to get
basically our views call back
into our controllers in order
to leverage cashing, I'll call
back into it via, via
what, like they literally, you
typically you pass from your
controller to your view, you
pass a view model, Right?
There's a method called render
action that allows, and I
think it's gone in the
latest, latest version, five of
the MVC framework. So actually
had to find it in
the contribs where I'm using
render action to call back
into the home controller, to
basically have the view populate
all its data. And by
doing that, I then able
to use the values that
come back from the HTML
to cash that, and we're
able to, you know, cash
regions of the page instead
of just the entire page.
Cause we, that ability Done
as an, a, an action
filter on the, on the
control We are using the
let's see here. Yeah. We
are using the, the action
filters for, for the caching
type to occur, but we
didn't want to cache like
the entire homepage for X
number of seconds. We needed
the ability to cash. Let's
say, if you're looking at
the recent tags on the
homepage, we wanted the recent
tags section of the page
to be cashed for five
minutes or for an X
interval. But we've been one
of the rest of the
page to be able to
refresh over one minute interval
intervals. So we have a
global view that shows just
the default page. And then
that view calls back into
the controllers to get the
information that's cash on different
intervals. That makes Right. Okay.
So then the, the home
controller has a recent tags
thing that has an attribute
on it that describes, you
know, attribute output cash Perrin
five minutes. Right. So you're
cashing them at the render
action level. Right. Okay. Are
you running all of this
on how many boxes do
you have In this case?
We just have one server
that's, that's acting as both
our database and web server
and it's, we run pretty
hot. Usually we're running about
40 to 50% CPU it's
at times. And that's kind
of during our really heavy
loads. So what kind of
box is this? It's a
quad core. I believe Xeon.
Is that right? Jeff? Yeah,
actually it's eight core eight
courses, dual, dual quad. So
we have, we have four
gigabytes of memory and then
eight real CPS in there
through through physics, right? Yeah.
You're winning 40. So you're
winning 40% on average on
hunting. And when you're running
hot on all eight cores,
right. Well in 40% of
the cumulative. So that would
mean we're doing 46. And
what's your memory pressure like
with only four gigs? It
varies. I mean, we've improved
our querying. The one thing
we found, I know it's
sort of a running joke
in computer science, but like
all your performance is in
the database. I mean, it's
just ridiculous how much everything
you do is determined by
how fast you get data
out of the database. And
that's why also the caching
turned out to be obviously
super critical for us. I
think there were a couple
is I want to talk
about just a couple of
issues that we had during
development. And one was the
current version of MVC is
not very cash friendly because
it doesn't really let you
break up controllers into sub
controllers because really, as Jeff
was describing, you have a
page that's really a bunch
of sub items, even though
it's one controller action and
you want to cache different
parts of controller differently. So
you really want to compose
your controllers into sub controllers.
And then each sub controller
would have a view associated
with it that would have
its own, you know, caching
rules and stuff. So that
was a little bit of
a challenge. Cause for a
site of our scale, we
have to cash like crazy.
Otherwise we just fall over,
right? We can't do hundreds
of queries for every user.
Like every second that they
hit the page, that's just
like web design one Oh
one. And then beyond that,
beyond the caching issue with,
with NBC, I was really
actually very disappointed in the
way SQL server works out
of the box, SQL server
2005. We had huge issues
around deadlocks with what I
feel like is not an
unusual query load for a
website EEG 98% reads. And
2% writes is that we
were regularly blocking and dead
locking like multiple times per
hour. And it turns out,
and I had a blog
post about this, but like
I said, I'm still kind
of disappointed that they out
of the box made this
decision that we had to
switch to this, this read
committed view or this transaction
level, which gives you, it's
not like no lock, no
lock has read uncommitted. I
know you know about that.
Cause you've blogged about that
before, but this is one
level up from that. And
once we switched to that,
it's been totally smooth sailing.
But until we did that,
like pulling our hair out
A little bit of backlash
against that post, this is
a tough question since we're
such wonderful friends, but there
were some people who said
that, that post show that
you really didn't understand the
issue around dead logging. Do
you disagree? Well, I, I
think there's a lot of
people that don't actually read
the entirety of what it,
right. Like they read like
a couple of paragraphs and
assume that, Oh, he doesn't
know he's talking about, but
they don't sort of read
the, the end because I
think reading that post, if
you actually read everything I
wrote and get to the
end of it, I'm just
painting the entire picture of,
you know, here's the problem,
right? Here's one thing you
could do. Right. And then
here's, you know, actually what
you should do. Right. And,
and the, the, what you
could do with no lock.
Right. We talked about that
because, and honestly I've talked
to people that have worked
with DBEs that just tell
people it's like, yeah, use
no lock on everything. It's
like, it's like, take two
aspirin and call me in
the morning. There are DBEs
out there who do this.
And I think just cause
they've learned that in you
don't, you have locking problems
and for a lot of
queries, it does it really
matter. Right? Like sampling, pulling
back a user profile. Does
it really matter if the
profile is a little bit
out of date at the
time that I get it?
I'm not sure that it
does. Right. Yeah. And you're
saying, I'm hearing you say
that you wish SQL server
had more of a realistic
awareness of, of how, how
the world typically works and
had typical defaults is what
you're saying. It turns out
that this, this Reed committed
transaction level. And I think
it's the default in like
Oracle and stuff. And people
had left comments on a
blog like, wow, that's not
the default. They were really
shocked that this was not
the default. And I think
we were too, because I
do not view our query
load as unusual, certainly not
for a website. So out
of the box, SQL server
is just really ill configured
to build a website. I
mean, that's really the bottom
line. That was the point
of that post saying, Hey,
look out of the box,
SQL server needs to be
adjusted to work with sort
of typical website loads. And
once you do that, it's
great. I mean, we haven't
had any problems since It'd
be nice. If there was
a profile option, like you
could tell SQL server, here's
how I intend to use
you set yourself up appropriately.
Well, right. And I have
sort of a heretical view
on this anyway, that I
think the database should be
figuring out a lot of
stuff like you should index
this column. Like I think
the database doing a lot
of stuff automatically. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean it does, it
does learn a lot. I
mean, SQL server and SQL
server 2008 got really, really
smart on query plans, which,
which interestingly I've said a
few heretical things that have
gotten me in trouble. Like
I believe that the day
of the stored procedure is
probably over years and years
and years. Yeah. Okay. You're
you're, you're a progressive heretic.
I am totally you're ahead
of your time. Oh, you
know what? Jeff Dallas was
telling me that Rob Connery
added and Atwood method to
subsonic that actually extracts raw
SQL, supposedly that was mentioned
on one of the Hanselman,
his podcasts. He and I
talked about that last week,
but I just wanna mention
that, that I do have
an affinity. I kinda like
to see, I will say
that I know Rob Connery
kind of hates it, but
I love it. Like I
think it's like that to
me is database assembly language
because the database is so,
so important to your performance.
I mean, it's like the
thing that determines your performance.
So if you don't have
like a real lock on
how you build SQL and
like the performance characteristics of
the SQL you're building, I
mean, you're just really dead
in the water. You're going
to build an app. That's
going to be incredibly slow.
So I view it as
incredibly mission critical to deeply
understand the actual SQL that
you're emitting. And I don't
really like the sort of
link does this very well
to be clear link. Doesn't
outstanding job at this, but
I still, I want to
see exactly what SQL is
being generated and understand exactly
why it's performing the way
it's performing. Because when you
look at stack overflow 98%
database job, Well it's fast.
I mean, it's, it is,
it is exquisitely fast. I
thought it was pretty cool
when OB Fernandez came on
and asked if it was
written in rails. That was
pretty awesome. Yeah, that was,
that was a, that was
a great question. Let me,
let me, let me push
back on one thing though,
because I'm hearing that you're
a pragmatist and you're, you're
a pure pragmatist, you know,
make it work, do it
right. Get out of my
way. Let's go, go, go.
But I'm shocked that this,
that you have your SQL
server running on the same
machine as your web server.
Well, let's give this a
really obvious upgrade path, right?
I mean, this is one
way of looking at this
is that To go live
with a SQL server on,
it's not behind a firewall,
it's not in its own,
you know, it needs to
be out of the DMZ
and behind the second firewall.
I mean, I worked in
finance for years, so maybe
I'm just paranoid, but that's
just the surface area for,
for attack, just doubled, You
know, the windows firewall and
stuff. And there's really no
way to get to it
unless you can remote desktop
in like we do. Now.
You've just said that you
remote desktop into your production
machines, which adds a new
attack vector. So that means
that now I know you
have ports open for RDP.
Well, what are you gonna
do? I mean, people are
gonna attack you with whatever
is available. Our passwords are
pretty good. Well, so that's
not the point, right? That's
like saying the lock on
my door is pretty good,
but you know, the most
secure house is one without
doors. Right. And even more
secure if I can't find
the house, right. Well, like
I said, we have an
obvious upgrade path, which is
to move the database, to,
to buy another server from
crystal tech. That's our host
and, you know, shift the
database over that would immediately
cut our load in half
on that. Do you think
that that's really that simple
it's half that, that half
of your CPU is being
used by the SQL server
and the other half is
being used by the web
server? Yeah, it's pretty much
an even split. I mean,
we, we, we watch task
manager pretty closely and assuming
the processes have been up
for the same length of
time, which isn't always true
because the, the worker process
tends to get shut down
for various reasons. But when
they're up for the same
amount of times, it's, it's
actually shocking how even the
CPDs actually is between the
two at the moment. Hmm.
How far can you take
this? I mean, if you've
done a capacity planning, any
formal capacity planning, We don't
really do any planning. We
just kind of do stuff
and then just see what
happens. Yeah. I'm so I'm
such a stodgy old dude,
because it's like, you know,
when you go to a
bank, you, you know, how,
how many people are signing
up for online accounts and
how often is it, you
know, what's the trend line
look like? What's the trend
line, look, look going backwards.
How will it be exponential
geometric, you know, in 10
years or five years or
even six months, what's the
capacity like, so you're just
gonna buy hardware when it
starts to get to 60%
and then you'll just figure
it out from then. We've
been keeping a really close
eye on the database. In
other words, watching for queries
that start to become painful,
using the profiler. We love
the profiler, by the way,
it's like my new best
friend Filling the database in
production. I attach the database
all the time and just
look at the queries and
just see what's going through
and what's slow. And are
you concerned about database fragmentation?
Do you do anything like
that? Have you, have you,
have you figured out if
you're, if your tables break
on a page boundary or
do you think about that
kind of stuff? Not currently.
I mean, most of the
thinking I do is around
this query takes 200 milliseconds
than it needs to take
50. So then I just
break it apart, you know,
the query analyzer and try
to figure out how to
make it better. What are
some of your biggest tables,
millions, what's your greatest? You
want to talk a little
bit about, cause you're at
a lot of research initially
looking at how we could
pedia stores data. And Jared
came up with really the
initial design. It's been pretty
solid. There's been some tweaks,
but Jared did want to
Our largest table, you know,
every revision That goes in
just says, it's stuck. Overflow
does have elements of the
Wiki that you can edit
any question or, you know,
revise its tags that I'd
say we have w I
mean, it's not in the
millions of records. Definitely not
yet, but I think we
have like three, 400,000 records
right now and our, our
revision stable. Do you know
the state of the fragmentation
of the SQL server database?
No. I mean, describe imitation.
I'm talking about like, what's
going on in the internal
data structures Right now. We
have not looked at that
yet. Huh? How many tables
are there? Well, the top
of my head, I'm not
at my computer. I guess
we have maybe like 15,
16 tables. I mean, it's
not a, it's not a
large scheme of by any
means. Huh? So a lot.
So a lot of the
stuff and there's little tiny
database updates that happen when
you, when you vote something
up or you get a
badge or whatever, or this
was all just, you know,
you know, interlocked, increment type
stuff, you just plus one,
all these different little values.
Okay. For instance, with voting,
like we actually do still
a record of every vote
that happens, you know, who
it happens to when it
happened so that we can
recreate like for any, any
given user their reputation, we
can actually have a path
of everything that happened to
get that user, that score.
So we, in certain cases
we do have just straight
increments, but most of the
increments are all sort of
like a de-normalized field. We
can always get back and
calculate how that value happened.
But Get back. Are you
saying that you calculate and
store Vote? Like if somebody's
voted somebody's posts, we would
store a record and the
vote table, like this person
applauded a given user's posts
and then we would increment
their score on the, or
their, excuse me, their reputation
on like their user account
on that, on that record.
Just so we have sort
of a, you know, we
don't have to calculate that
reputation score every single time,
you know, a user. Okay.
So you calculate it and
score you calculate and storage,
but you're saying that if
you delete, if you decided
to zero out the reputation
column, you could get it
all back. Okay. Okay. And
do you think that you
have, do you have any
sense of how big this
will get before and what
will break first? Will it
be, will it be SQL
server? Will it be the
memory on the SQL server?
Will it be your cash?
Does your cash try to
cash everything? Or if you
had 10 times more content
and 10 times more traffic,
would your cash have to
be tuned to cashless? Yes.
We definitely need more memory
like of servers running, you
know, pretty much what's it
running at right now. It's
not actually that overloaded at
the moment, but I think
it's going to follow a
very traditional scaling vector. I
think moving the database to
its own server, due to
the vagaries of how our
host works. It's actually cheaper
to buy a second server
Than it is to upgrade
memory in the first one.
So that effectively doubles our
memory space, right? Because then
the database is on its
own server with four gigabytes
of memory. The web server
has four gigabytes of memory.
And I gotta tell you,
Scott, where we are abusing
HTTP, the cash, the asp.net,
HTP cash, we're using the
heck out of that thing,
man. Why are you using
Colonel caching? Are you just
using system, not web.cash. We're
using really a mixture where
we can, we're using sort
of the attribute level output
caching, but the trick there
is every one of our
pages has the user at
the top. So doing a
whole page cache only really
works well for us. If
you're anonymous, in which case
you're not logged in, meaning
the pages identical for you
and every other anonymous user.
Yeah. So when you say
HTTP caching, you're talking about
like IE tags and plants
at caching. Well, a little
bit, but we're also stuffing
stuff into the cash. Like
I'm confused, there's basically three
levels of caching, right? There's
there's user mode caching, which
is like using the cash
and asp.net there's kernel mode
caching, which would be like
using HDP dot SIS to
see if you can turn
a website page around without
even hitting IIS. Right. And
then there's whatever cashing the
client does. Right. So, which
are, which are you using?
And in what way, We
are exploiting some caching in
terms of just having correct,
you know, HTTP headers and
things like that and, and
compression and things like that.
But HTTP the builtin asp.net
cash is like our new
best friend. And one of
my favorite new techniques, it's
not even really new or
very clever is we're taking
a lot of our HTML
fragments that we're rendering and
then we're zipping them and
then putting them in the
cash because we have so
much CPU time, not the
zip is computationally expensive operation
anymore, but that sort of
increases by 10, the size
of your cash because you're
not putting HTML and you're
putting Jesus, you know, binary
blob, You're using like systems
that iota compression. And you're
just taking how much like
30 K and zipping it.
Yup. Yep. We do that
because you know, depending how
many tabs do you have
on a page there's sort
of this combination Loreal explosion
of the cash, right? Even
for an anonymous user, right
there say three or four
tabs per page that the
user could go to. But
that means we don't, we
don't, we don't start one
copy of the page. We
store four copies, right? Depending
on which tab you're on
for the question, for example.
So this way each one
of those tabs is like
one 10th, the size, it
would normally be in the
cash so we can fit
a lot more of the
men without putting pressure on
memory. And we have so
much CPU it's like comical.
So Did you, did you
take system.web.cash and wrap it
and make a zip cash
that zips and unzips as
you go in and out
of it? Or did you
do the zipping on the
outside? It did the zipping
on the outside, but that
would, I got to tell
you that would be an
awesome addition to the core.net
stuff. It's just, just zip,
everything that goes in when
not, I mean, Open source,
any of your stuff. I
mean, send me that and
I'll make a Jesus cash
that would make a good
blog entry. Yeah. That is
interesting. Yeah. I'm familiar with
the common rhetoric's, especially, it
gets really interesting when you,
if you did your stuff
in mult, in multiple languages,
like one of the biggest
and worst in most lame
bugs and dust blog to
this day remains that sometimes
on some pages where I
do output caching, but I
forget to add in user
language as a common Metorik
like if a German guy
is the first guy to
hit that page, then it
gets cashed in German for
everybody, no matter what language
they speak, right. How many
languages are there like hundreds
in the world? Well, I
mean that your site supports
that your site would actually
be localized in probably 26,
26. So every page is
times 26, right? Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. It gets scary really
quickly. That's why the zipping
is so awesome because you
can fit literally 10 times
as much crap and memory.
Hmm. Yeah. You know, my
initial reaction to that is
one of like a disdain
and almost a little bit
of nausea because it just
doesn't feel right. Means we're
doing it right. That's good.
That's what I liked. It's
really clever though. I don't
know. I mean, I'm going
to be really interested to
hear from the listeners, what
they think about that. I
think that, you know, you
can get into like micro
perf and decide how much
CPU that's going to take,
but ultimately CPU is going
to get faster than, than
the amount of memory that
you could buy. Like you
can't buy 10 times more
memory without getting into big
money. Right? No, it's so
true. And we have just
stupid amounts of CPU. It's
like even on day one.
That's pretty cool. That's pretty
cool. Now is this, this
is seven and 60. Yeah.
Oh, that's true. And our,
our stack, I gotta say,
I love our stack. I
mean, I know I'm a
Microsoft developer, so it's sort
of incestuous for me to
even say it, but our
stack is really kicking ass
because we're 64 bit, top
to bottom 64 bit operating
system, 64 bit.net framework, a
64 bit SQL server and
the performance really, as long
as you don't make queries
that suck, this is where
it gets. It's just amazing
how quickly you can construct
a query. It just sucks.
It just joins the wrong
things. And it takes three
to 400 milliseconds to come
back. As long as you're
careful in your query construction,
it's amazing how fast things
are performing. Like, and we
haven't really had to do
that much tuning. Mostly it's
just been tweaking and paying
attention to, you know, the
things that are starting to
get slow around the edges
were places where we had
done stupid things, right, where
we didn't have the right
index where our query was
really poorly constructed and things
like that. So largely we've
just been removing those barriers
that we put in the
system to unlock the performance
that was already there. And
it's really gratifying to me
that a lot of people
from the community come in
and say, Oh wow, Don,
that really can be fast,
which you and I have
known for years. I mean,
dot net is really, really
fast. Just the question of,
you know, how you use
it. And stack overflow is
a way to show that
off as well. And that's
why I'm excited to speak
with Phil at PDC about
NBC and talk about how
much we like NBC and
how much we, we really
love our staff. We're not
religious about it, but we're
proud of it. Right. Are
you going to start blogging?
Like how tos and like
you've got this, you know,
one of the things that,
that, that I, that I
like about my blog, especially
a couple of years ago
when I was actively actively
developing was all of the
war stories. You've got a
huge pump pool of war
stories and code samples, just
sitting in your heads now
as a collective, are you
going to start getting those
best practices out into the
world? Well, some of our
stuff isn't actually best practices.
Some of our stuff, Some
of your stuff is probably
horrific. It should never see
the light of day, but
still Right. Yeah, no, we've
learned a lot, particularly around
security. I've done a couple
of security related entries. I'll
tell you build a program
or a website and you
will learn more about security
than you ever wanted to
know. Like within the first
month, I know that was
true for us. There were
a lot of exploits that
we didn't fully understand. And
now I think we, I
dunno, we fully understand that
we definitely have a better
understanding of them. And before
we get too much deeper,
I want to Jeff Dallas
to talk a little bit
about, we've been using cruise
control.net. And one of the
things that has made this
really a pleasure to work
on is that we have,
you know, continuous integration, like
we can do builds all
the time. Right. And we
deploy new versions of the
site literally every day to
the web server sometimes multiple
times. So it's very much
rapid development, the sense that,
you know, we roll things
out sort of, as soon
as we develop them and
then we get feedback immediately.
So, Jeff, do you want
to talk a little bit
about setting up cruise control
on your experience with that?
Sure. Yeah. Well just said
a lot there already, but
pretty much we have every,
every check and build process
where one of us checks
in and we all get
an email or we'll do
a board build performs, and
then the unit tests are
run against that build. And
we all get an email,
whether that was successful or
not. And we kind of
get to watch each other's
work as it's checked in
and, and watch the site
kind of evolve and basically
check ourselves, you know, whether,
whether we're putting in a
good work, I know Jeff's
watching us pretty closely. Well,
so we're all watching each
other. I would say That
cruise control and continuous integration
are really Jeff's opportunity to
oppress you. Yeah, pretty much
If you, cause if you
need to be rescued, we
can, we can put together
a team and get you
out of there. Yeah. So
another thing, Scott that'll scare
you and make you sad
and depressed about our project
and probably justifiably. So our
development website is on the
same servers, production. You like
that. I thought that you
were supposed to be the
embodiment of best practices. You
are. We're the embodiment of
what does he just don't
do what we do, right?
Yeah. That's what I'm trying
to tell people. It's just
economics. I mean, we don't
really want to buy a
lot of servers until we
really, really need them. I
agree. I don't really like
having our development website on
the same server, but I
guess I'm cheap at the
moment because we're kind of
in startup mode, eventually we
will have more than one
server and we will do
this the right way. I
do see that. Wow. I,
I don't even know what
to Say. I am. I'm
stupid for having heard this
information. When you worked with
Jeff, you realize that he's
a, at times a little
bit of a Renegade, but
that kind of makes them
a little bit more, at
least is that Jeff, does
that really gonna work? You
think, and then you get
in there like, wow, okay.
Yeah. Actually a lot of
homework done here. It actually
works. People learn from this.
I mean, you guys pulled
this off in just months,
right? I mean, their projects
are failing left and right.
You're either, you've either discovered
a new, crazy, fast and
loose caffeine powered way to
do software or you're headed
for a huge brick wall.
The way I look at
this is there's so many
projects out there that you
have basically, and not to
say anything negative about PHP
developers. I don't know how
many I would be offending
this particular audience, but there's
so many programmers that are
just literally just throwing crap
out there on the web
and just seeing what sticks.
I mean, if you look
at like friends and you
look at all these really
classic websites, I mean, these
are not really well architected.
They just kind of grew
into what they were, right.
It doesn't actually take, you
know, a really good architecture
to, to succeed. It takes,
you know, an idea that
you just execute on over
time and you keep building
it up. I think that's
the more important factor than
getting everything right. Is just
having it be right enough
for today and then having
a commitment to improving it
every day. Wow. Well, I
think that's probably a good
place to stop because that
gives a lot of people,
a lot of things to
think about. Thanks guys very
much for sitting down with
me today and folks can
check it out@stackoverflow.com and you're
going to continue blogging. I
hope maybe a little more
often than you have been
jeff@covid.com. Yes. I'm coming back.
Fantastic. Alright. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.